# Code Book for run_analysis.R

The Code book describes the data used in this course project Gettng and Cleaning data. The data describes about the Samsung wearable device and how each signal varies for a set of 30 volunteers.

###Overview
--------------

This course cleans and tidies the data and the section of code book gives an overview of the data used in project

### Input Data 

The various activity codes and features are given in these files. 

1. activity_labels.txt: Names and IDs for each of the 6 activities. 
   Activity Type Code 
  * 1 WALKING
  * 2 WALKING_UPSTAIRS
  * 3 WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS
  * 4 SITTING
  * 5 STANDING
  * 6 LAYING
2. features.txt: Names of the 561 features. 
3. features_info.txt : This files gives the detailed information about the features and how data is generated for samsung wearable device.
The input data is classified into two folder test and train. In each of the folders there are three files and one directory 

#### Test Direcotry and Files 

The test directory consists of 30% of the data generated for volunteers based on the feature and activity type. 

1. subject_test.txt - The file containing data for about 2947 observations for 561 features for about 9 voluteers of the total of 30 volunteers. 
2. y_test.txt - The file containing the data denoting the ID of the activity for each of the observations in X_test.txt.
3. X_test.txt - The file with data for about 9 of the 30 volunteers in a row and column format with 2947 rows and 561 columns. The column names can be lookedup in features.txt.
4. Inertial Signal Direcotry : the directory for various acceleratometer and gyroscopic mesurements. 

#### Train Direcotry and Files 

The train directory consists of 70% of the data generated for the volunteers. The train directory consists of the following files.

1. subject_train.txt - The file containing data for about 7352 observations for 561 features for about 21 voluteers of the total of 30 volunteers. 
2. y_train.txt - The file containing the data denoting the ID of the activity for each of the observations in X_test.txt.
3. X_train.txt - The file with data for about 21 of the 30 volunteers in a row and column format with 7352 rows and 561 columns. The column names can be lookedup in features.txt.
4. Inertial Signal Direcotry : the directory for various acceleratometer and gyroscopic mesurements. 

#### Output file format

The prerequisite before running the R file from command line is to have the library reshape2 loaded. The output file is generated by executing the function mergeTidyData() function on run_analysis.R file.
The sequence of steps are  merging the data from test and train and applying column names and then wrtiting it to table using the write.table function as done in the run_analysis.R file. 

The output file so generated using the above R script consists of 40 observations and 69 variables. The 40 observations pertains to various Volunteers and 69 variables pertain to Id, activities and various means and standard deviations. 

The first 3 columns of the tidy data set consists of the following :
      
      * SubjectId - Values 1 to 30 
      * ActivityId - Activity value
      * Activity - Activity Name corresponding to each of the activity Id. 
Columns from 3 to 69 pertain to means and standard deviation in X,Y and Z for each of the volunteers numbered from 1 to 30. 

